{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2867
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 You get only the movement around the island, then if you try to reconstruct you may have something in the final reconstruction. So the problem with the data is that it's day by day and I should combine the days? Yeah, but I understand that there is a lot of data and it is difficult to know. I don't think there is any indication of what are the ports. Yeah, but either way a ship I think I don't even know In any case during the day you have I think enough data unless the ship is stationary but in that case Yeah, but and also I only care about the next one coordinates. So Yes Yes, but because the fact that we use the transformer is that If you want to predict the next point The transformer use all the context so ah so if for example in day two I don't have the data from day one so yeah, so you're missing some information, but Baseline methods they use just the previous one or two points so they would work well in any case I think it's just a data issue. I mean the coast is the same but But if it's the US coastal waters, I think Situations are like easy to predict. So the fact that you have just the previous point is already enough because it is a Constant ending and speed or the constant angle and speed so here you can even Implement a ruler and you get the points perfect So our problem is when we have complex roots, so if we want to predict what to go next, we need to have a bit of history because if the average root is in this direction, and these are deviations that are caused because of some obstacles, we need to reconstruct the original root that was like the average between all these three points. Doesn't that happen when I encode the coastlines? Yes, well the coastlines is a strong constraint that you should follow a path rather than another one. But imagine that you have this situation because you're avoiding... Because we don't have like a bathymetry, so it is something that is missing. But also there could be some fluctuations depending on the current, on the C current. The fact that we use the transformer, the idea is that the overall context counts as it is not just the first or the previous one or two steps. Okay, so... But I think I can then, when I train the model, I can... Let me just think. Yeah, in any case, I think that there are a lot of data here because they cover all the costs. Isn't it just for you guys? Yes, but already the US is a very large cost. What you can do is like you can take like two consecutive days and... Or two consecutive days and train on that. Yeah, and predict on the third one maybe. And you remove from the data all tracks that are shorter than a certain one. So like if it is shorter than two points, no two points, okay it's just one. shorter than four points, for instance, you set a minimum threshold and you get only tracks that are long enough to have some... Okay, so for example if it does like a small port-to-port road that's like 20 kilometers, I take it out or do I still consider it? I would say we need to set a threshold to do something that is consistent because like small coastal routes, they are not very interesting because what we want to propose is for larger shipping. So we need to simulate scenarios in which there is some difference like if if you take one root rather than another one. So in a smaller distance, it is usually very, you have very few information. So it is, you don't vary a lot your course. It is not useful. So I think you should, if you extract data from these files, you should take care that you have enough data points. So the track is long enough. And I think you should consider ships that are of a certain size. You are not reacting, not fish. But the fishing boats can be important because they are obstacles. So, yeah. Okay. Okay. But to model the routes, we are interested in tankers, cargo ships and passenger ships. So if you have a way to select these types from the data, it would be already a good thing. And just train on those and in all the rest? Yeah, so the other could, you could probably take them into account to model obstacles, but not for modeling the route. Like, there is a ship there, so I need to avoid it. But you don't model that route. You model just the route of dimension. Okay, you just see here. So I think I end up... (footsteps 3 times is 150. Okay, actually wait, let's do... So let's set a threshold of 5, let's say. I have a thousand out of 7,000. Okay. Who appear 5 times or less. What seems reasonable. Okay. And I just cut them out and then... Okay, so I would say let me know when you start running experiments with the model that you built. Okay. We can see how there is answer. So the idea of the grid, you dropped it or... Oh no, I still implement it as a... I still have the... I think it has a grid. Okay. But I'm a bit busy this week, so I don't know how far I'll get, but... I was... Well, this week I was a bit iller. Next week I'm going to Brussels for a European project. So I will be here on Friday in any case so we can meet next Friday. Okay. Yeah, I'm sorry, I made a mistake. So I thought we were aligned on 3PM. But yes, 3PM was your cause, right? Yeah, yeah, yeah. But it is different because I have a very fluctuating schedule this semester. So for example, next week I finish at 4.15 because I have a lab. Okay, so we can say next week at 4. I have a lab until 4.15. But the lab, I know it finishes exactly at 4.15, so I know it. 4.15, yes. Well, it's not a problem for me because I stay here until late, so it's okay. Okay, so it's gonna be... 5, no? 4.30. Okay. Okay, so I'll do as discussed and then... Okay. Okay. Okay, perfect. I forgot to send you the link to the GitHub repo. In any case, when I have... Thank you. Okay, thanks to you. Have a nice... }